today we have a special guest hadie Bole
world champion fitness model and she's
doing her glutes women love training
their glutes and what I've asked hadie
for is her five favorite exercises to
get the most complete glutes possible
and what we're going to do is just go
through the techniques that she uses for
these exercises and we're going to give
you a free glute program it's the same
glute program that a world champion
fitness model would follow to get world
champion quality glutes we are starting
with with the first exercise of the day
is high bar paused back squats so we got
two exercises we got a high bar or a low
bar squat is there any reason why you've
chosen High bar over low bar personally
I just prefer the feel of a low of a
high bar versus a low bar and I like the
depth that I can get in a high bar um so
squatting is actually a fantastic
exercise for glutes as it loads the
glutes in a lengthened position so when
it comes to building glutes you're going
to notice that the ex exes that I choose
today are going to Target the muscle in
a lengthened position in a mid-range
position in a shortened position and as
well as it in abduction and hip
extension so when it comes to choosing
exercise for the glutes you can't you
you're going to get a really great
result by picking one exercise that
targets all of that and then applying uh
effort to that over time so let's have a
look at the squat and there's a few
little things that we're going to see
about the squat a few techniques that we
like to teach to make sure that you're
getting the absolute most for your glute
development uh first thing so we're
doing High bar I just so you know my two
cents with this High bar and low bar
both excellent for glute development uh
but the fact is when we consider the
other exercise that we're going to do
today it kind of makes a little bit more
sense to choose the high bar variation
uh so let's have a look at the high bar
let's go through step by step all the
technique pointers so this is your crash
course to the perfect perfect high bar
squat how grabs the bars Clos as her
shoulder Mobility allows she holds the
bar close so that she can increase that
upper back tension upper trapezius those
are the muscles that she's resting that
barbell on she pulls her elbows back and
shoulder blades down squeezing the
elbows back recruits the midback muscles
to maintain a rigid upper back and then
pulls the elbows down which allows her
to recruit her lats which makes her
entire spine neutral and rigid from
start to finish now let's have a look
she unrack this way the best stance is
unique to the individual had has a
relative ly mid-range stance just
outside of hip withd toes pointed very
slightly outwards now watch what she
does she's looking straight ahead we're
going to pause in the bottom position
spend more time in that pause position
where the muscle as is at its longest
stretch that's how it goes control down
as deep as her Mobility allows look at
that neutral pelvis and up neutral
pelvis and therefore neutral spine so
she could go deeper but she'd probably
get a thing called Butt Wink which takes
the tension off the glutes so is butt
Wing good or bad well I say it's
something that we should be avoiding but
not because of the back injury part of
it I'm not going to go there all I'm
talking about is if we want to maintain
tension we want to keep the glutes at
the greatest stretch don't go into
buttwink we're now relieving the stretch
if you do go into buttwink so don't do
that control Tempo pause maximizing that
time under detension in that lengthened
position there's a lot of great research
that tells us lengthen portion of the
movement is the most effective when it
comes to building muscle but it doesn't
mean that shorten range of motion
movements are bad it just means that
lengthen is very very very good so
that's where we're doing the pause in
the most effective part of the movement
good set high five yeah let's have a
look from front view grabbing the barell
closer shoulder Mobility allows this is
as close as my shoulder Mobility allows
cuz I got very poor shoulder Mobility uh
but had is shoulder Mobility is great
just like majority of the people in the
world standing in her comfortable stance
just outside hip withth something I love
to do is look straight ahead the body
follow the
eyes so when she looks straight ahead
balance is a huge component for a
successful squat let's go let's go takes
a big breath to brace controls down as
deep as her Mobility allows watch her
brace imagine I'm going to this is how I
want you to think about it imagine I'm
going to punch you in the belly you got
to brace that way so she draws her rib
cage downwards towards her pelvis she
doesn't just Arch her back it's a really
nice strong Foundation where she's using
the muscles on her front and the muscles
on her back pausing in that deep
position toes in line with knees in line
with hips everything's aligned there's
no knee valgus the knees aren't knocking
in or pushing out excessively it's all
align that's the strongest and safest
position holding her
breath exhales once she gets to the
top really nice
squatting good job how you Bo it so good
so two sets of
a lot of people would typically ride on
a program three sets or four sets
whatever that might be that's fantastic
what we're thinking today is more
exercises but less sets on each so
because we're doing five different
exercises today we're choosing to do two
sets on each two top sets the warm-up
sets don't count uh that equals 10 total
sets for the glutes in one session
really nice sweet
spot perfect Tedy Bole
nice work nice
work good
R [__] good one yeah let just a warm up
my bump's stronger than
that next exercise the perfect
compliment for the squat which targets
the glutes in the lengthen position now
we go to the glute Drive which targets
the glutes in the shorten position did
you notice how we paused in the fully
lengthen position now we're going to do
the opposite we're going to pause in the
fully shortened position which is where
this exercise places the most emphasis
so how many reps are you going to be
doing 15 15 reps uh what are the
technical cues are you going to be
thinking about when you do
this personally these days I go for more
of a narrow stance now stance position
is totally up to the individual what
feels the most comfortable I've only got
narrow hips so a really wide position
doesn't favor me in terms of how well I
feel my glutes particularly at the top
and as well as how I feel my glutes or
my low back should I say at the
beginning the bottom so range is
something that I think people should
explore because if we come down too low
and and we get that but Butt Wink That
Bass was talking about in Squat and we
get it here we are going to you might
cause a little bit of pain discomfort in
the lower back so we actually want to
keep the spine neutral the pelvis
neutral and focus on the glutes driving
the hips up so we shouldn't see a change
uh in the spine when performing this
exercise so uh position I like to have
mine in quite a comfortable position
it's about hip width narrow boy hips um
and then I place the pad on top of my
hipbone that's really comfortable take a
deep breath
in drive up and then I keep my eyes to
follow my hips throughout the whole rep
and
set two more
nice I on
nice okay so here's a nice tip for you
guys notice that she took that movement
to failure um that's probably the best
thing that you can do when you're
thinking about isolation exercises
things that come at a very low cost of
fatigue she didn't go anywhere near
failure for the squat which is a very
complex movement and if she was to take
that movement to failure there'd be a
lot of technical breakdown there's not
really much technical breakdown that can
happen here so taking this movement to
failure isn't going to really cause
injury it's not going to have a negative
impact on the remainder of the session
um she'll take a little time to recover
and she'll probably be able to do the
same amount of reps on the next set goal
would be to be within two rep ranges of
that so if I was to try and get two more
reps out at that weight I don't know if
I'll be maximizing the top position so
therefore I'm getting mechanical to
failure so oh and Technical failure
where I'm no longer to able to achieve
the same amount of range with the same
efficiency of those previous reps which
is when it comes to hypertrophy that's
kind of where you want to be working in
for exercises that are safe enough to
load in that way like you said in the
squat I stay away from failing on a
squat um doesn't mean I'm not working
hard but I'm working hard safely so this
is a great exercise to really go to town
on also it burns like hell so it's a
nice sensation in the glutes good one uh
a few more minutes how many minutes rest
between these sets 2 minutes 2 minutes
rest between sets and uh you'll see how
many uh reps she'll be able to do on the
next Set uh with the squats whenever
it's more uh complex more technique
involved more compound a little bit
longer rest so we did about 3 to 4
minutes rest between her squat sets also
you probably notice that she's not going
heavy she's really reintroducing the
squats into a programming again she
hasn't done squats in a while she's
usually a lot stronger with their squats
but because it's new we're starting
light uh so more rest between sets for
more complex movements but then as the
exercises get a little bit easier take
them to failure less rest between sets
uh and it's a lot easier to to push out
now here's the next question what's
better for glute development hip thrust
or a squat that's a trick question
they're both is good and actually what's
better is including the both which is
what we're doing here um yeah I think a
mistake people make is what's the best
exercise it's like that's a very
limiting question questions like it's
going to be so super individual if you
ask any you know Fitness industry
influencer or girl who has big glutes
what their favorite exercises are rarely
ever will they have the exact same
response because we have our different
biome mechanics what feels good for
someone else doesn't feel so good for
others um so it's important to have a
toolbox full of exercises and exercise
progressions so if you can't squat on a
bath do some sort of squat pattern you
can do a leg press you can do a hack
squat you can do a single leg leg squat
a split squat something where you're
going to take that um glute in the
length of position is going to be a
great um variation to um perform if
that's not the exercise of choice for
you totally fine I think a really cool
way of thinking of things is like
movement patterns we have deadlift
patterns I'm going to show you a ROM
remaining deadlift you might prefer it
doing it with dumbbells you might prefer
a trap bar you might prefer prer single
leg um it's a deadlift variation it's
going to take the the glute through the
mid-range position um it's going to do
its thing if taken to proximity to
failure or within a heavy load that's
going to stimulate the
muscle oh how many was that 15
okayo two less reps than the set before
that's good it's still within the range
and she took both of those sets to
failure next exercise remaining deadlift
remaining deadlift let's go
uh what wait next 80 yeah I just got 80
now here's the thing with the Romanian
deadlift it's pretty much the same as a
conventional deadlift minus the leg
Drive what's leg Drive quadriceps how do
we get quadriceps by bending the knees
so how do we avoid using quadriceps
don't bend the knees that's what an IDL
is so the difference between an ardl and
a conventional deadlift is ardl is more
hamstrings conventional deadlift is more
quadriceps so what we're going to have a
look at now is the Romanian deadlift the
way that hadie likes to perform it how
many reps you going to be doing 12 now
this is a bit strange because we've just
gone uh eight reps for the squat 15 to
17 Reps for the uh glute drive and 12
Reps for the RDL I want you guys to
understand something a lot of the times
I used to think i' look at a program
it's like what's the rep range it's 10
so everything has to be 10 the fact is
10 reps on a squat is different to 10
reps on a Romanian deadlift is different
to 10 reps on a on every single exercise
feels slightly different with a slightly
different rep range um had Bodo has been
doing this for decades and she knows
what's the most comfortable for her so
she's working within a hypertrophy rep
range um which is quite broad actually
so you can achieve hypertrophy or
hypertrophy just means building muscle
um you can achieve that through so many
different rep ranges and she's choosing
the rep Rangers that are most
comfortable for the specific exercise so
I didn't tell her what reps I are her
because she knows what's most
comfortable at 12 let's have a look at
what you're doing for the Romanian
deadlift so a queue I really like to
focus on particularly at the top of a
lift or particularly at the top of a ro
Romanian dead lift is hips to the
bar so when you're coming up most people
will like kind of think about like
standing up which is fine but you're
going to then lean your torso and your
body weight back what I want to think
about is weight in the midfoot so as I
come over that's really placing a lot of
tension men and emphasis on the glutes
and the hamstrings and as I come up I
think bringing my hips to the bar so I'm
achieving hip extension at the top in
the same way that I do hip extension in
that uh horizontal plane for uh the
glute
Drive let's check it out so the first
lift from the bottom is going to be a
conventional deadlift so we're going to
use leg drive to actually pick the
weight
up I like to have my toes facing
forward first rep is a conventional
deadlift deep breath
in very important to maintain a neutral
spine from this deadlift variation the
moment she rounds her back she's using
different muscles so you want a rigid
torso maintaining tension on the
hamstrings and glutes throughout the
entire movement she's using her lats to
keep the bar close to her body or as she
said in line with her midfoot something
that I love to do with the Romanian
deadlift the body follows the eyes so
looking down is a really nice cue for a
Romanian deadlift teaches you to push
your butt back to create the most
stretch on those muscles so sometimes
you might see with the conventional dead
LIF is people are looking up because
they want the Torso to be a little bit
more upright I don't mean completely up
so don't take that out of context but a
little bit more upwards compared to what
we're seeing here but for Romanian
deadlift we are are focusing a lot on
the down portion of the movement so
therefore it's a queue that we love to
use is to look
down when people look up they kind of
Bend more at the knee so when they look
down they they tend to use more of a hip
hinge so excellent Technique One More
set yep good
one very good
nice good job my lats get so such a
workout so few things lifting straps for
Romanian Del
definite must have otherwise your grip
is going to be the limiting factor we're
not here to train grip we're here to
train glutes but hamstrings there's a
lot of moving Parts here uh the next
thing did she go to Absolute fail she
went to Mechanical fail or technical
fail which she mentioned before which is
where she could have done a few more
repes for sure but the technique would
have started to maybe change a little
bit which she absolutely doesn't want to
do uh so when people think does
technique matter um yeah it absolutely
does especially when your goal is to
whether it's to lift the heaviest weight
possible or build as much muscle
possible when your goal is to build
muscle you want to position your body in
a very specific way to really really
Target that muscle and the the places
where her technique could have broken
down in a deadlift is typically the back
could have gone to more rounding and if
that happens it takes the weight off the
glutes which is a target area and more
onto the back no point doing that yeah
something I just named as soon as I
finished that lift was oh my lats so my
lats have to to work super hard one as a
bracer of the core but also to pull that
bar into my body so as I'm down here 80
kilos for my lats is pretty [__]
heavy 80 kilos for my legs it's
relatively heavy but not like it is for
the upper body so the limiting factor is
always going to be the weakest link
which for me is going to be my upper
body what's really interesting that you
just said there bass when you talked
about technical failure I think an
important piece as we come to learn
about training it's more than just an
exercise it's a skill and so when we are
practicing exercises um we only load it
when it's safe enough to do so when
we've performed the technique correctly
so you've always taught me technique
before load and that's how we build
confidence so when people say oh I'm too
scared to put that weight on the
bar that comes down to a confidenc in
knowing that maybe it might not be ready
for you um I know that when you used to
throw out numbers for me in my liist
I'd be like [__] but I knew I could get
there because I practiced the technique
so much that I had the confidence that
if I followed everything exactly as I
was doing I was going to make it up
knowing that it was going to be really
[__] hard the difference between
muscle hypertrophy or training for
hypertrophy and training for strength is
one wants to find the path of least
resistance the other one wants to find
the path of the hardest resistance when
it comes to building muscle you want the
resistance if you make it easier you're
not going to load the muscle in the
position that you want to be able to
create the same amount of force or
tension on but when it comes to
performing a really heavy squat you want
bar path you're trying to find the path
of Le resistance you're trying to say
open the hips chest up you know like
you're trying to find that that center
of gravity when it comes to trading the
biceps you you don't want to do this
like that's center of gravity you don't
want to do that you want to bring it out
here so that strength curve creates a
lot of tension on the bicep or on the
shoulder on the shoulder this way so
something to think about when it comes
to strengthen hypertrophy while load is
really important technique comes first
and one wants to find the path of most
resistance the other one wants to find
the path of least
resistance technique matters kids what
are we doing now we're going to do a
one-legged leg press why do you want to
do that hady Bo every program I like to
do at least one unal exercise because
unilateral exercises are going to
challenge the stabilizers of the hip
which are important for group for glute
development so if I wasn't to do a
double leg Romanian I'd put in a single
leg Romanian now people might say well
it doesn't lift as much load the muscle
just needs to no stress so as long as
you are lifting the right amount of load
for that single leg leg press that
single leg squat that single leg uh RDL
you are going to hypy the muscle one of
the reasons I want to choose a single
leg leg press um I get a really nice
amount of range with the single leg and
I'm going to take it into more like a
high bar position so it's not going to
be so um knee knee dominant or knee
flexion um I'm going to take the muscle
into a lengthen position but my glute
meat is also going to have to help
stabilize the hip in that position so
I'm going to go higher Reps for this 15
reps 15 to 20 I like to work within rep
ranges actually for hyper because it
means that like on days that you can
really push you go for those higher rep
ranges I think a lot of people they get
stuck on a rep range and they're like
okay 12 is 12 it's like no that's a
guide to the weight that you're going to
use so as an example my first uh
exercise or the second exercise I did
which was the glute uh hip thrust we
said 15 reps I was like I can do a
little bit more than that so rather than
getting stuck on 15 I'm going to go to
actually I'm working with that one to
two rep sh failure knowing that that
proximity is going to get the job done
without over annihilating my glutes
because I have more exercises to come
good one uh something important to
notice here is uh when hady said you
know people think that the unilateral
movement you can't load as much the fact
is she's just loaded the hell out of it
so she's already done her squats she's
already done her deadlift she's already
done her glute Drive hip thrust whatever
you want to call that um where she's
able to really really load it so it's
not always about hitting the muscle in
the exact same angle we've already hit
those muscles with really good amount of
stimulus on those angles now it's about
adding something different something
that bre contus taught me once uh which
I really really liked a lot of people
focus on for their glutes um working in
the in the vertical plan so that's like
your squats and your deadlifts and your
lunge variations that's fantastic and
typ typically that's how I would do it
and he said that's equivalent to saying
um compound pushing and pushing P
pushing and pulling exercises like your
bench press and your pull-ups is enough
for arms um well it is enough for arms
but not at the highest level so the best
arms in the world from bodybuilders they
do all angles different isolation
exercises and this is how we're treating
the glutes so had is not just after
really nice glutes she's after world
class glutes and those are the little
pieces of detail that she likes to
include so next up unilateral variation
um it important to note that the leg
press single-legged is not better than a
single-legged lunge or a single-legged
Ario it's just one of the many
variations that we're using and that's
what we're using
today W that's a really nice leg press
wo okay how's that way good I'm going to
go a tiny bit heavier okay set two 15
reps one leg at a time um have a look at
the foot placement this is unique to hat
so she's uh not a big girl she's about
52 53 and uh you know her proportions
are going to be different to someone
who's a little bit bigger so her foot
placement is if you to do bilateral so
both leg at the same time it would be
considered a narrow stance actually um
and the focus is purely hip extension
so quite
low quite a low foot placement quite a
close foot placement um driving through
the entire
foot the main joint that she's working
on is the hip joint she has to maintain
that neutral spine so the back can't
lift off the pad how many reps was that
15 15
reps I feel
good finishing the day
with cable glut me Kickbacks this is the
easiest exercise of the day which is why
we place it last because all of her
energy is gone and what are we focusing
on here how boo so when I perform these
exercises um it's not just about the
moving leg it's also about the standing
leg so when whenever we're standing on
one leg like this we're going to be
challenging all the little muscles
around the pelvis so the glut me the
glutax uh and the glut me right so
actually everything is going to come
into play just to stand on one leg as
well as challenge the the lateral core
to keep the pelvis stable so when I
perform this particular exercise I want
to make sure that's locked in so this
doesn't move at all a soften knee now my
whole glute is working to stabilize this
side and then I can perform or focus on
driving this leg back into a 30° angle
so that we're challenging the muscle
fibers for the glut
me so what we see is a mistake is these
ones it's not about how high you can
kick your leg it is about the muscle
moving the moment arm moving the foot
and keeping tension on that particular
muscle so we come to a lengthened or a
stretched position here if I had
something else to hold on to right
lengthened
shortened lengthened underload shortened
underload keeping this nice and stable
so abs are on cores on muscles of my
standing leg or the glute of my standing
leg on as well as the leg
abducting how many reps 15 to 20 let's
do it really
controlled so there's no swinging I'm
really making sure that the movement is
done for by the muscle so I'm pausing at
the stretch position pausing at the
shorter
position controlling the movement in the
concentric and the
Ecentric and both my glutes are burning
upop
sides two sets 15 reps I actually do
like a 30 second rest when I perform
these because as I named the standing
leg is actually burning and so it's
going to be pref fatigued before I go
and do the movement so for this
particular exercise more than my leg
press I actually give myself a 30 second
rest good one good
one a few moments later when you get
this right it's so good
so sometimes playing around with
depending on what kind of cable you have
if you had like a arm that came out
there it's actually a lot easier to
perform the movement ideally I like to
try and stay a little bit more upright
but I also need to hang on to
something oh [__] and there you have it
there's five of Hattie's favorite
exercises it's not the only exercise
that she does but they complement one
another uh a lot of the times people
think what's a good glut exercise and
they just do their favorite glue
exercises as you can see there's a
strategy to what Hat's doing she'll get
one exercise Target one part of the
glutes and then every one of those
exercises hits a very different part of
those glutes so we have three glute
muscles the biggest one being the glute
Max that's what we really really focused
on but then she also focused on with
these last exercises the unilateral and
those cable exercises and and abducting
the leg moving our legs sideways hits
those glute Min and glute meat as well
so that is a complete glute day from hat
Bole where do we find you you can find
me on my YouTube Hatty Bole or Flex
method you can find me on Instagram
Hatty Bole or Flex method um they're
probably the two thank you for coming
and we're going to put the program in
the comment section below so click like
subscribe all that stuff and I'll see
you next time